Hello. Let's say that
you're trying to
identify whether the author for
a certain poem is Lucas or not.
You can either take all of
Lucas' poems and put
them into datasets,
and instead of
predicting K classes,
you will now predict
K plus 1 classes.
All the previous poems of
other authors plus Lucas',
so that's why it's k plus 1.
Or you can compare one of
Lucas' poems to another poem,
and that is where one-shot
learning comes in.
In this video, I'll show
you how you can do that.
To understand the
difference between
classification and
one-shot learning,
first consider identifying
or classifying
signatures based on one
through K possible classes.
You might use some
classification model
trained on the K classes,
probably with a
softmax function at
the end to find the
maximum probability.
Then at recognition time,
classify the input signature to
one of those
corresponding classes.
That's great if you have
a signature list
that's rarely changes.
But what if you get a new
signature to classify?
It would be expensive
to retrain the model
every time this
happens, and besides,
unless you have a
great many examples
of that new signature,
model training won't
work very well.
In one-shot learning, you
need to be able to recognize
a signature repeatedly
from just one example.
You can do this with a
learned similarity function.
Then you can test a
similarity score against
some threshold to see if two
signatures are the same.
So the problem changes to
determining which class
to instead measuring similarity
between two classes.
This is very useful,
especially in banks, for example.
Every time there's
a new signature,
you can't retrain
your entire system to
classify the signatures
into K possible outputs.
So instead, you just learn
a similarity function that can be
used to calculate a
similarity score.
That can in turn be used to
identify whether two
signatures are the same.
You already did this using
cosine similarity as the
similarity function.
If the result was greater
than some threshold Tau,
you determine the
inputs to be the same.
In the case of
comparing signatures,
if the similarity is less
than or equal to Tau,
then the signatures
are different.
In this video, I spoke
about one-shot learning
and I told you why it is a
very effective technique.
One-shot learning makes
use of Siamese networks.
In the next video, I'll
show you how you can
train and test your
Siamese network.